README.md, before:

# Spark Lightning Wallet

A minimalistic wallet GUI for [c-lightning](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning),
accessible over the web or through mobile and desktop apps.

[![npm release](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/spark-wallet.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/spark-wallet)
[![docker release](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/shesek/spark.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/shesek/spark)
[![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/elementsproject/spark.svg)](https://github.com/elementsproject/spark/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Pull Requests Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](http://makeapullrequest.com)
[![IRC](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20freenode-brightgreen.svg)](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=c-lightning)

:zap: Simple & minimalistic
:zap: Purely off-chain
:zap: Near-zero configuration
:zap: Progressive Web App
:zap: Cordova and Electron builds
:zap: Personalizable themes
:zap: Automatic self-signed certs
:zap: LetsEncrypt integration
:zap: Tor hidden service (v3)
:zap:

-----

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43122333-5122ca24-8f29-11e8-9426-58c8646f9d92.png" width="23%"></img>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43122376-7543f93c-8f29-11e8-9363-5bc39cdb1807.png" width="23%"></img>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43122396-8715d4f0-8f29-11e8-8736-266b5ecaf636.png" width="23%"></img>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43122261-1c2428c2-8f29-11e8-8c29-e524de4aa82f.png" width="23%"></img>

> ⚠️ Spark is alpha-quality software under active development.
> Please use with care, preferably on testnet or with insignificant amounts.
> Spark comes with no guarantees and with support on a best-effort basis.

## Installation

Spark requires a running [c-lightning](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning) node
(see setup instructions in [the official docs](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/blob/master/doc/INSTALL.md)
or [this tutorial](https://hackernoon.com/harnessing-lightning-for-instant-bitcoin-transacting-a-tutorial-3b9dcdc00552))
and nodejs (v6.0 or newer).

Once c-lightning is running, install and start Spark (on the same machine) with:

```bash
# $ npm install -g spark-wallet

$ npm install -g git+ssh://git@github.com:ElementsProject/spark#dist

$ spark-wallet # defaults: --ln-path ~/.lightning --port 9737
```

Or simply `$ npx spark-wallet`, which will install and start Spark in one go.
This should normally Just Work ™.

Spark will generate and print a random username and password that'll be used to login into the wallet.
To specify your own login credentials, set `--login [user]:[pass]` or the `LOGIN` environment variable.

To access the wallet, open `http://localhost:9737/` in your browser and login with the username/password.

To accept remote connections, set `--host <listen-address>` (shorthand `-i`, e.g. `-i 0.0.0.0`).
This will automatically enable TLS ([more details below](#tls)).

Spark can also be accessed using mobile and desktop apps instead of through the browser.
See [*Mobile app (Cordova)*](#mobile-app-cordova) and [*Desktop app (Electron)*](#desktop-app-electron)
for more details.
Note that the desktop app comes bundled with the Spark server and doesn't require the manual server setup described here.

See `$ spark-wallet --help` for the full list of available options (also available under [*CLI options*](#cli-options)).

### Configuration file

Spark reads configuration options from `~/.spark-wallet/config` (can be overridden with `--config/-c <path>`).
The expected format is one `key=value` per line, like so:

```ini
ln-path=/data/lightning/testnet
login=bob:superSecretPassword
port=8000
```

### Deploy with Docker

Spark is also available as a Docker image that comes bundled with bitcoind and c-lightning.
See [`doc/docker.md`](https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark/blob/master/doc/docker.md) for more details.

## Features

Spark currently focuses on the core aspects of day-to-day usage: sending, receiving and viewing history.
Peers and channels are expected to be managed using the RPC for now.

Spark is a purely off-chain wallet, with no on-chain payments.
This allows Spark to fully realize the awesome UX enabled by lightning,
without worrying about the complications and friction of on-chain.
This might change someday.

Spark has a responsive UI suitable for mobile, tablet and desktop devices,
but is best optimized for use on mobile.

### Controls

- **Display unit:** Click the balance on the top-right or the unit in the "request payment" page to toggle the currency display unit.
  The available options are sat, bits, milli, btc and usd.

- **Theme switcher:** Click the theme name on the bottom-right to change themes (you can choose between over 15 [bootswatch](https://bootswatch.com) themes).

- **Collapse payments:** Click on payments in the list to display more details.

- **Expert mode:** Click the version number on the bottom-left to toggle expert mode.
  This will add [two new menu items](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43125383-89ac19b4-8f32-11e8-9a5e-d91eb5a637ea.png), "*Logs*" and
  ["*RPC Console*"](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43122285-3854be8a-8f29-11e8-9329-d4c5c881c5e2.png),
  and display yaml dumps with additional information throughout the app.

### Browser support

Supported on recent desktop and mobile version of Chrome, Firefox and Safari.

Requires iOS 11+ for WebRTC (used by the QR scanner), but works otherwise with iOS 9+.
Chrome on iOS does not support WebRTC.

Untested on IE.

## Progressive Web App

You can install Spark as a [PWA](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Apps/Progressive) to get a more native-app-like experience,
including an home launcher that opens up in full screen, system notifications and improved page load times.

Available in Chrome mobile under `⋮` -> `Add to homescreen` ([see here](https://imgur.com/zVe1sOH)),
in Chrome desktop under `More tools` -> `Install to desktop` ([see here](https://i.imgur.com/Pj6FpGA.png))
and in Firefox mobile with an icon next to the address bar ([see here](https://mdn.mozillademos.org/files/15762/add-to-home-screen-icon.png)).

iOS has a [bug](https://github.com/webrtc/samples/issues/933) [preventing](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46228218/how-to-access-camera-on-ios11-home-screen-web-app/46350136)
PWAs from using WebRTC (used by the QR scanner), but it works otherwise.
The QR scanner works if you access Spark without using the "Add to homescreen" feature.

Note that installing the PWA on Android requires the TLS certificate to be signed by a CA
or manually added as a user trusted certificate ([instructions below](#add-as-trusted-certificate-to-android)).

Compared to the PWA, the main advantages of the mobile and desktop apps (below) are
the ability to handle `lightning:` URIs,
better security sandbox (detached from the browser)
and static client-side code.

## Mobile app (Cordova)

A Cordova-based native app for Android is available for download from the
[releases page](https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark/releases) (`spark.apk`).
It is not currently published to the app store.

When the app starts for the first time, you'll need to configure your Spark server URL and API access key.
You can print your access key to the console by starting Spark with `--print-key/-k`.
You can also scan this information from a QR, which you can get with `--pairing-qr/-Q`.

For the native app to properly communicate with the server, the TLS certificate has to be signed by a CA,
or manually added as a user trusted certificate ([instructions below](#add-as-trusted-certificate-to-android)).

## Desktop app (Electron)

Electron-based desktop apps for Linux (packaged as `AppImage`, `deb`, `snap` and `tar.gz`),
OS X and Windows are available for download from the
[releases page](https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark/releases).

The desktop app comes bundled with the Spark server-side component. If you're connecting to a local
c-lightning instance, you can configure the client to connect to it directly without manually setting-up
the Spark server.

Connecting to a remote c-lightning instance requires setting up the Spark server on the same machine
running c-lightning and connecting through it.

## TLS

Spark will by default generate a self-signed certificate and enable TLS when binding on a non-`localhost` address.

The self-signed certificate and key material will be saved to `~/.spark-wallet/tls/`.
To save to a different location, set `--tls-path`.
To set a custom "common name" for the generated certificate, set `--tls-name` (defaults to the value of `--host`).

To use your own TLS key and certificate, put your `key.pem` and `cert.pem` files in the `--tls-path` directory.

To disable TLS and start a plaintext HTTP server instead, set `--no-tls`.
Note that without TLS, Chrome will not allow accessing the camera on non-`localhost` hosts.

To enable TLS even for `localhost`, set `--force-tls`.

#### LetsEncrypt integration

Setting `--letsencrypt <email>` will automatically register a CA-signed certificate using LetsEncrypt.
This will make your certificate work everywhere without self-signed warnings.

`$ spark-wallet --host mydomain.com --letsencrypt webmaster@mydomain.com`

Requires a domain name, cannot be used with IP addresses.
If your domain is different from the host you're binding on, set `--tls-name`
(e.g. `--host 0.0.0.0 --tls-name mydomain.com`).

Note that verifying domain ownership requires binding an HTTP server on port 80, which normally requires root permissions.
You can either:

1. Start `spark-wallet` as root (simplest, but not recommended).
2. Use `setcap` to allow nodejs processes to bind on all ports: `$ sudo setcap 'cap_net_bind_service=+ep' $(which node)`
3. Bind the verification server to a different port with `--le-port 8080` (any port >1024 will work),
   then forward port 80 to it with `$ sudo iptables -A PREROUTING -t nat -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 8080`.

After initially verifying your domain, you may start Spark with `--le-noverify` to skip starting the verification server.
This will work until the next renewal is due (every 90 days).

If you're having troubles, set `--le-debug` to show more debug information.

#### Add as Trusted Certificate to Android

To avoid the self-signed certificate warnings (without a CA), you can add the certificate to your Android's "user trusted certificates"
by following these steps:

1. Open Spark in your mobile web browser (skipping the warning).
2. Click the red TLS warning in the URL bar to view the certificate and ensure it matches the expected one
   (the certificate's SHA1 fingerprint is printed to the console during Spark's startup).
3. Navigate to `/cert.pem` to download the certificate file from the server and open it.
4. You should now see [this screen](https://i.imgur.com/f2DMWdL.png), allowing you to add a user trusted certificate.
   Fill in a name (e.g. "Spark"), leave "Used for" on "VPN and apps", and click OK.

Note that adding a user trusted certificate causes android to display a "Network may be monitored" notification.
It can be flicked off.

## Tor Onion Hidden Service

To start Spark as a Tor hidden service (v3), set `--onion`.
Spark comes bundled with Tor (via [granax](https://github.com/bookchin/granax));
you don't have to pre-install anything for this to work.

Running Spark as a Tor hidden service has the following benefits:

- Tor onion URLs are self-authenticating and are pinned to your server's public key.
- In addition to authenticating the server, they also serve as a mean to authenticate the user - you can't access the server without knowing the `.onion` hostname.
- You don't have to setup port forwarding, everything is done with outbound connections.

Tor data files (including secret key material for the hidden service) will be saved to `~/.spark-wallet/tor/`. This can be overridden with `--onion-path`.

#### Connecting from Android

To connect to your hidden service using a web browser, install the
[Orbot](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orbot/) and [Orfox](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orfox/)
applications, open the `.onion` URL in Orfox, and enable JavaScript under `⋮` -> `NoScript`.

To connect using the Cordova app, configure Orbot to route Spark's traffic over the Tor VPN
(under "Tor-Enabled Apps"), then configure Spark to use the `.onion` server URL.

Instead of manually copying the `.onion` URL, you may want to specify `--print-qr/-q` to print
the URL as a QR to the console, or `--pairing-qr/-Q` to also include the access key.

## Adding to startup with `systemd`

```bash
# set config options in ~/.spark-wallet/config
$ echo login=bob:superSecretPass123 | tee -a ~/.spark-wallet/config

# create service file from template
$ curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ElementsProject/spark/master/contrib/spark-wallet.service |
  sed "s~{cmd}~`which spark-wallet`~;s~{user}~`whoami`~" |
  sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/spark-wallet.service

# inspect the generated service file, then load and start the service with:
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
$ sudo systemctl enable spark-wallet && sudo systemctl start spark-wallet
```

## Developing

Spark is written in a reactive-functional style using [rxjs](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs) and [cycle.js](https://cycle.js.org),
with bootstrap for theming and a nodejs/express server as the backend.

To start a development server with live compilation for babel, browserify, pug and stylus, run:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark && cd spark
$ npm install
$ npm start -- --ln-path /data/lightning
```

Cordova builds can be prepared with `npm run dist:cordova`.
The `.apk` file will be available in `cordova/platforms/android/app/build/outputs/apk/debug/`.

Electron builds can be prepared with `npm run dist:electron`.
They will be available under `electron/dist`.

To get more verbose output in the browser developer console, set `localStorage.debug = 'spark:*'`.

Pull requests, suggestions and comments and welcome!

## CLI options

```bash
$ spark-wallet --help

  A minimalistic wallet GUI for c-lightning

  Usage
    $ spark-wallet [options]

  Options
    -l, --ln-path <path>     path to c-lightning data directory [default: ~/.lightning]
    -u, --login <userpwd>    http basic auth login, "username:password" format [default: generate random]

    -p, --port <port>        http(s) server port [default: 9737]
    -i, --host <host>        http(s) server listen address [default: localhost]

    --force-tls              enable TLS even when binding on localhost [default: enable for non-localhost only]
    --no-tls                 disable TLS for non-localhost hosts [default: false]
    --tls-path <path>        directory to read/store key.pem and cert.pem for TLS [default: ~/.spark-wallet/tls/]
    --tls-name <name>        common name for the TLS cert [default: {host}]
    --letsencrypt <email>    enable CA-signed certificate via LetsEncrypt [default: false]

    -o, --onion              start Tor Hidden Service (v3) [default: false]
    -O, --onion-path <path>  directory to read/store hidden service data [default: ~/.spark-wallet/tor/]

    -k, --print-key          print access key to console (for use with the Cordova/Electron apps) [default: false]
    -q, --print-qr           print QR code with the server URL [default: false]
    -Q, --pairing-qr         print QR code with embedded access key [default: false]
    --no-webui               run API server without serving client assets [default: false]

    -c, --config <path>      path to config file [default: ~/.spark-wallet/config]
    -V, --verbose            display debugging information [default: false]
    -h, --help               output usage information
    -v, --version            output version number

  Example
    $ spark-wallet -l ~/.lightning

  All options may also be specified as environment variables:
    $ LN_PATH=/data/lightning PORT=8070 NO_TLS=1 spark-wallet
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Reproducible builds
- NPM package: reset ctime and chmod attrs to remove non-determinism

- Electron: use libfaketime and reset chmod attrs in hook script

- New Dockerfile for reproducing builds, including support for windows building with wine (old dist:wine was removed)

- Release script now builds in docker, unless NO_DOCKER is specified

- Remove git commit hash from VERSION, so that distribution checksums are not effected by it

- Using node v8.11.3 and npm v5.6.0 as the canonical versions

- Added doc/reproducible-builds.md and a README section

README.md, after:

# Spark Lightning Wallet

A minimalistic wallet GUI for [c-lightning](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning),
accessible over the web or through mobile and desktop apps.

[![npm release](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/spark-wallet.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/spark-wallet)
[![docker release](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/shesek/spark.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/shesek/spark)
[![MIT license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/elementsproject/spark.svg)](https://github.com/elementsproject/spark/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Pull Requests Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg)](http://makeapullrequest.com)
[![IRC](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20freenode-brightgreen.svg)](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=c-lightning)

:zap: Simple & minimalistic
:zap: Purely off-chain
:zap: Near-zero configuration
:zap: Progressive Web App
:zap: Cordova and Electron builds
:zap: Personalizable themes
:zap: Automatic self-signed certs
:zap: LetsEncrypt integration
:zap: Tor hidden service (v3)
:zap:

-----

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43122333-5122ca24-8f29-11e8-9426-58c8646f9d92.png" width="23%"></img>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43122376-7543f93c-8f29-11e8-9363-5bc39cdb1807.png" width="23%"></img>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43122396-8715d4f0-8f29-11e8-8736-266b5ecaf636.png" width="23%"></img>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43122261-1c2428c2-8f29-11e8-8c29-e524de4aa82f.png" width="23%"></img>

> ⚠️ Spark is alpha-quality software under active development.
> Please use with care, preferably on testnet or with insignificant amounts.
> Spark comes with no guarantees and with support on a best-effort basis.

## Installation

Spark requires a running [c-lightning](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning) node
(see setup instructions in [the official docs](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/blob/master/doc/INSTALL.md)
or [this tutorial](https://hackernoon.com/harnessing-lightning-for-instant-bitcoin-transacting-a-tutorial-3b9dcdc00552))
and nodejs (v6.0 or newer).

Once c-lightning is running, install and start Spark (on the same machine) with:

```bash
# $ npm install -g spark-wallet

$ npm install -g git+ssh://git@github.com:ElementsProject/spark#dist

$ spark-wallet # defaults: --ln-path ~/.lightning --port 9737
```

Or simply `$ npx spark-wallet`, which will install and start Spark in one go.
This should normally Just Work ™.

Spark will generate and print a random username and password that'll be used to login into the wallet.
To specify your own login credentials, set `--login [user]:[pass]` or the `LOGIN` environment variable.

To access the wallet, open `http://localhost:9737/` in your browser and login with the username/password.

To accept remote connections, set `--host <listen-address>` (shorthand `-i`, e.g. `-i 0.0.0.0`).
This will automatically enable TLS ([more details below](#tls)).

Spark can also be accessed using mobile and desktop apps instead of through the browser.
See [*Mobile app (Cordova)*](#mobile-app-cordova) and [*Desktop app (Electron)*](#desktop-app-electron)
for more details.
Note that the desktop app comes bundled with the Spark server and doesn't require the manual server setup described here.

See `$ spark-wallet --help` for the full list of available options (also available under [*CLI options*](#cli-options)).

### Configuration file

Spark reads configuration options from `~/.spark-wallet/config` (can be overridden with `--config/-c <path>`).
The expected format is one `key=value` per line, like so:

```ini
ln-path=/data/lightning/testnet
login=bob:superSecretPassword
port=8000
```

### Deploy with Docker

Spark is also available as a Docker image that comes bundled with bitcoind and c-lightning.
See [`doc/docker.md`](https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark/blob/master/doc/docker.md) for more details.

## Features

Spark currently focuses on the core aspects of day-to-day usage: sending, receiving and viewing history.
Peers and channels are expected to be managed using the RPC for now.

Spark is a purely off-chain wallet, with no on-chain payments.
This allows Spark to fully realize the awesome UX enabled by lightning,
without worrying about the complications and friction of on-chain.
This might change someday.

Spark has a responsive UI suitable for mobile, tablet and desktop devices,
but is best optimized for use on mobile.

### Controls

- **Display unit:** Click the balance on the top-right or the unit in the "request payment" page to toggle the currency display unit.
  The available options are sat, bits, milli, btc and usd.

- **Theme switcher:** Click the theme name on the bottom-right to change themes (you can choose between over 15 [bootswatch](https://bootswatch.com) themes).

- **Collapse payments:** Click on payments in the list to display more details.

- **Expert mode:** Click the version number on the bottom-left to toggle expert mode.
  This will add [two new menu items](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43125383-89ac19b4-8f32-11e8-9a5e-d91eb5a637ea.png), "*Logs*" and
  ["*RPC Console*"](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/877904/43122285-3854be8a-8f29-11e8-9329-d4c5c881c5e2.png),
  and display yaml dumps with additional information throughout the app.

### Browser support

Supported on recent desktop and mobile version of Chrome, Firefox and Safari.

Requires iOS 11+ for WebRTC (used by the QR scanner), but works otherwise with iOS 9+.
Chrome on iOS does not support WebRTC.

Untested on IE.

## Progressive Web App

You can install Spark as a [PWA](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Apps/Progressive) to get a more native-app-like experience,
including an home launcher that opens up in full screen, system notifications and improved page load times.

Available in Chrome mobile under `⋮` -> `Add to homescreen` ([see here](https://imgur.com/zVe1sOH)),
in Chrome desktop under `More tools` -> `Install to desktop` ([see here](https://i.imgur.com/Pj6FpGA.png))
and in Firefox mobile with an icon next to the address bar ([see here](https://mdn.mozillademos.org/files/15762/add-to-home-screen-icon.png)).

iOS has a [bug](https://github.com/webrtc/samples/issues/933) [preventing](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46228218/how-to-access-camera-on-ios11-home-screen-web-app/46350136)
PWAs from using WebRTC (used by the QR scanner), but it works otherwise.
The QR scanner works if you access Spark without using the "Add to homescreen" feature.

Note that installing the PWA on Android requires the TLS certificate to be signed by a CA
or manually added as a user trusted certificate ([instructions below](#add-as-trusted-certificate-to-android)).

Compared to the PWA, the main advantages of the mobile and desktop apps (below) are
the ability to handle `lightning:` URIs,
better security sandbox (detached from the browser)
and static client-side code.

## Mobile app (Cordova)

A Cordova-based native app for Android is available for download from the
[releases page](https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark/releases) (`spark.apk`).
It is not currently published to the app store.

When the app starts for the first time, you'll need to configure your Spark server URL and API access key.
You can print your access key to the console by starting Spark with `--print-key/-k`.
You can also scan this information from a QR, which you can get with `--pairing-qr/-Q`.

For the native app to properly communicate with the server, the TLS certificate has to be signed by a CA,
or manually added as a user trusted certificate ([instructions below](#add-as-trusted-certificate-to-android)).

## Desktop app (Electron)

Electron-based desktop apps for Linux (packaged as `AppImage`, `deb`, `snap` and `tar.gz`),
OS X and Windows are available for download from the
[releases page](https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark/releases).

The desktop app comes bundled with the Spark server-side component. If you're connecting to a local
c-lightning instance, you can configure the client to connect to it directly without manually setting-up
the Spark server.

Connecting to a remote c-lightning instance requires setting up the Spark server on the same machine
running c-lightning and connecting through it.

## TLS

Spark will by default generate a self-signed certificate and enable TLS when binding on a non-`localhost` address.

The self-signed certificate and key material will be saved to `~/.spark-wallet/tls/`.
To save to a different location, set `--tls-path`.
To set a custom "common name" for the generated certificate, set `--tls-name` (defaults to the value of `--host`).

To use your own TLS key and certificate, put your `key.pem` and `cert.pem` files in the `--tls-path` directory.

To disable TLS and start a plaintext HTTP server instead, set `--no-tls`.
Note that without TLS, Chrome will not allow accessing the camera on non-`localhost` hosts.

To enable TLS even for `localhost`, set `--force-tls`.

#### LetsEncrypt integration

Setting `--letsencrypt <email>` will automatically register a CA-signed certificate using LetsEncrypt.
This will make your certificate work everywhere without self-signed warnings.

`$ spark-wallet --host mydomain.com --letsencrypt webmaster@mydomain.com`

Requires a domain name, cannot be used with IP addresses.
If your domain is different from the host you're binding on, set `--tls-name`
(e.g. `--host 0.0.0.0 --tls-name mydomain.com`).

Note that verifying domain ownership requires binding an HTTP server on port 80, which normally requires root permissions.
You can either:

1. Start `spark-wallet` as root (simplest, but not recommended).
2. Use `setcap` to allow nodejs processes to bind on all ports: `$ sudo setcap 'cap_net_bind_service=+ep' $(which node)`
3. Bind the verification server to a different port with `--le-port 8080` (any port >1024 will work),
   then forward port 80 to it with `$ sudo iptables -A PREROUTING -t nat -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 8080`.

After initially verifying your domain, you may start Spark with `--le-noverify` to skip starting the verification server.
This will work until the next renewal is due (every 90 days).

If you're having troubles, set `--le-debug` to show more debug information.

#### Add as Trusted Certificate to Android

To avoid the self-signed certificate warnings (without a CA), you can add the certificate to your Android's "user trusted certificates"
by following these steps:

1. Open Spark in your mobile web browser (skipping the warning).
2. Click the red TLS warning in the URL bar to view the certificate and ensure it matches the expected one
   (the certificate's SHA1 fingerprint is printed to the console during Spark's startup).
3. Navigate to `/cert.pem` to download the certificate file from the server and open it.
4. You should now see [this screen](https://i.imgur.com/f2DMWdL.png), allowing you to add a user trusted certificate.
   Fill in a name (e.g. "Spark"), leave "Used for" on "VPN and apps", and click OK.

Note that adding a user trusted certificate causes android to display a "Network may be monitored" notification.
It can be flicked off.

## Tor Onion Hidden Service

To start Spark as a Tor hidden service (v3), set `--onion`.
Spark comes bundled with Tor (via [granax](https://github.com/bookchin/granax));
you don't have to pre-install anything for this to work.

Running Spark as a Tor hidden service has the following benefits:

- Tor onion URLs are self-authenticating and are pinned to your server's public key.
- In addition to authenticating the server, they also serve as a mean to authenticate the user - you can't access the server without knowing the `.onion` hostname.
- You don't have to setup port forwarding, everything is done with outbound connections.

Tor data files (including secret key material for the hidden service) will be saved to `~/.spark-wallet/tor/`. This can be overridden with `--onion-path`.

#### Connecting from Android

To connect to your hidden service using a web browser, install the
[Orbot](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orbot/) and [Orfox](https://guardianproject.info/apps/orfox/)
applications, open the `.onion` URL in Orfox, and enable JavaScript under `⋮` -> `NoScript`.

To connect using the Cordova app, configure Orbot to route Spark's traffic over the Tor VPN
(under "Tor-Enabled Apps"), then configure Spark to use the `.onion` server URL.

Instead of manually copying the `.onion` URL, you may want to specify `--print-qr/-q` to print
the URL as a QR to the console, or `--pairing-qr/-Q` to also include the access key.

## Adding to startup with `systemd`

```bash
# set config options in ~/.spark-wallet/config
$ echo login=bob:superSecretPass123 | tee -a ~/.spark-wallet/config

# create service file from template
$ curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ElementsProject/spark/master/contrib/spark-wallet.service |
  sed "s~{cmd}~`which spark-wallet`~;s~{user}~`whoami`~" |
  sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/spark-wallet.service

# inspect the generated service file, then load and start the service with:
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
$ sudo systemctl enable spark-wallet && sudo systemctl start spark-wallet
```

## Developing

Spark is written in a reactive-functional style using [rxjs](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs) and [cycle.js](https://cycle.js.org),
with bootstrap for theming and a nodejs/express server as the backend.

To start a development server with live compilation for babel, browserify, pug and stylus, run:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark && cd spark
$ npm install
$ npm start -- --ln-path /data/lightning
```

Cordova builds can be prepared with `npm run dist:cordova`.
The `.apk` file will be available in `cordova/platforms/android/app/build/outputs/apk/debug/`.

Electron builds can be prepared with `npm run dist:electron`.
They will be available under `electron/dist`.

To get more verbose output in the browser developer console, set `localStorage.debug = 'spark:*'`.

Pull requests, suggestions and comments and welcome!

## Code signing & Reproducible builds

Signed distribution checksums are available in the git repo at
[`SHA256SUMS.asc`](https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark/blob/master/SHA256SUMS.asc)
(updated with every versioned release)
and on the [releases page](https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark/releases).
Git version tags are signed too.

The releases are signed by Nadav Ivgi (@shesek).
The public key can be verified on [keybase](https://keybase.io/nadav),
[github](https://api.github.com/users/shesek/gpg_keys),
[twitter](https://twitter.com/shesek) (under bio),
[HN](https://news.ycombinator.com/user?id=nadaviv)
or on [a domain he's known to control](https://www.bitrated.com/.keys/staff/nadav.asc).

To install the signed NPM package, rather than downloading it from the NPM registry, download it from
[the releases page](https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark/releases), verify the hash
and install using `$ npm install -g spark-wallet-[x.y.z]-npm.tgz`,
or install it from a signed git commit hash using `$ npm install -g github:ElementsProject/spark#[commit-hash-verified-to-be-signed]`.

The distribution checksums for the NPM package, Linux `.tar.gz`/`.deb`/`.snap` builds, macOS `.zip` build and Windows builds (installer and portable)
[are deterministically reproducible](https://github.com/ElementsProject/spark/blob/master/doc/reproducible-builds.md).

## CLI options

```bash
$ spark-wallet --help

  A minimalistic wallet GUI for c-lightning

  Usage
    $ spark-wallet [options]

  Options
    -l, --ln-path <path>     path to c-lightning data directory [default: ~/.lightning]
    -u, --login <userpwd>    http basic auth login, "username:password" format [default: generate random]

    -p, --port <port>        http(s) server port [default: 9737]
    -i, --host <host>        http(s) server listen address [default: localhost]

    --force-tls              enable TLS even when binding on localhost [default: enable for non-localhost only]
    --no-tls                 disable TLS for non-localhost hosts [default: false]
    --tls-path <path>        directory to read/store key.pem and cert.pem for TLS [default: ~/.spark-wallet/tls/]
    --tls-name <name>        common name for the TLS cert [default: {host}]
    --letsencrypt <email>    enable CA-signed certificate via LetsEncrypt [default: false]

    -o, --onion              start Tor Hidden Service (v3) [default: false]
    -O, --onion-path <path>  directory to read/store hidden service data [default: ~/.spark-wallet/tor/]

    -k, --print-key          print access key to console (for use with the Cordova/Electron apps) [default: false]
    -q, --print-qr           print QR code with the server URL [default: false]
    -Q, --pairing-qr         print QR code with embedded access key [default: false]
    --no-webui               run API server without serving client assets [default: false]

    -c, --config <path>      path to config file [default: ~/.spark-wallet/config]
    -V, --verbose            display debugging information [default: false]
    -h, --help               output usage information
    -v, --version            output version number

  Example
    $ spark-wallet -l ~/.lightning

  All options may also be specified as environment variables:
    $ LN_PATH=/data/lightning PORT=8070 NO_TLS=1 spark-wallet
```

## License

MIT
